Dear Sandra Orchard, 

Thank you very much for encouraging us to submit an article on the Eukaryotic
Linear Motifs resource (ELM) for publication in Current Protocols in
Bioinformatics.

We would like you to consider our article "Exploring Short Linear Motifs using
the ELM Database and Tools" as a unit in CPIB.
ELM is one of the major online resources dedicated to creating a comprehensive
database of Short Linear Motifs.
For more than 10 years expert curators have been annotating and uploading
motifs and motif instances from experimental literature into ELM.
Currently the database as over 3000 instances grouped into 262 motif classes,
all expertly annotated and integrated with a host of other online resources.
This database also serves as the basis of the ELM prediction pipeline;
a tool which predicts motifs in novel sequences pipeline based on their peptide
sequence, structural context and evolutionary conservation.


We believe ELM to be an incredibly valuable knowledge resource for molecular
and cell biologists, and we have written a small handful of protocols to cover
both basic and advanced usage of the ELM resource and prediction pipeline.
In this protocol we first explain how to explore and search the database
content, and cover which other types of data and online resource are
integrated into ELM.
Next we give two examples on how to use the ELM prediction pipeline to identify
motifs in sequences: First for p53, a well characterized and annotated protein;
secondly for a novel bacterial protein as an example of how ELM can be used
to select candidates for experimental followup. Lastly we also present two
Alternative Protocols on how to access the ELM database via the programmatic API
to search the database and run motif predictions.

Current Protocols in Bioinformatics is an excellent resource for
experimentalists to learn how to use bioinformatics in their own research, and
we hope that you find that this article contributes to this goal.

We look forward to hearing from you,


Yours sincerely,

Holger





